DATA VIS PROJECT PLAN:
0. write a spec of what data I want, and what structures should house it
DATA I WANT:

AUTHORS:
"Angela Lee Duckworth"
"Barbara L. Fredrickson"
"Carol S. Dweck"
"Corey Lee M. Keyes"
"Dacher J Keltner"
"Daniel J Siegel"
"Daniel T. Gilbert"
"Emma M Seppala"
"Frederic Luskin"
"Jennifer L. Aaker"
"Jon Kabat-Zinn"
"Kelly M McGonigal"
"Kristin D. Neff"
"Martin E. P. Seligman"
"Mihály Csíkszentmihályi"
"Richard J. Davidson"
"Robert A. Emmons"
"Sonja Lyubomirsky"
"Zindel V. Segal"


2. use out-of-the-box graph vis to get a sense, run some basic stats
- Try Gephi
- Think of a way to reduce cluttr, filter to most important nodes (then format data for easy use)
- Put it back in d3

FOCUS IN<<<<<<<<<<<<
What’s my goal right now?
What’s my main focus for exploring, visualizing the data? That should drive how  I format it.
VALUES:
- sees changes, connections, growth happening over time
- connect papers to key phrases, areas
ACTION:
	1. Every node needs
		a. an array of its key phrases (after DOWNLOAD FINISHES)
- remove clutter, show only what’s most important (this is an introduction tool, not a expert tool)


Problem: A clear statement of the problem your project addresses.
“scientific publication has been extended far beyond our present ability to make real use of the record.”
-Vannevar Bush 
Especially true for noobs without any prior context who face 2.5 million new papers each year. 
Understanding of how research papers, authors, and applications fit together remains trapped inside the minds of experts — how do we give novices that sort of perspective on the field's "knowledge landscape" (without years of reading papers)?


Motivation: An explanation of why the problem is interesting and what makes it difficult to solve.
Young researchers and scholars core challenge is to understand an academic fields' larger context and ecosystem. 
However, vitually all resources display information linearly, statically, and without context. 
Further, little aggregate or associative data sources exist -- the few that do typically prove overly complex and cluttered.

Approach: A description of the techniques or algorithms you used to solve the problem.
Selecting positive psychology as the field to focus on, I consulted several experts to settle on a list of 19 of the most core authors for new comers know.
I used Semantic Scholar's API to assemble meta data on every paper written, cited, or referenced by the 19 core authors. To reduce overwhelm, I filtered those further by including only papers which were highly influential on the field or other papers in the graph, as measured by Semantic Scholar.

Results: Screenshots and a working demo of the system you built.


Future Work: An explanation of how the work could be extended.
Two major areas of testing in and optimising for exist:
1. Academic courses: 
Might this be a useful tool for instructors, and how might they integrate it into their classes?
What are the core needs, questions, and uses of students?
2. Onboarding beginning researchers:
Particularly for undergrads starting in a lab, how might this tool give larger conceptual and methadological context and reference for day-to-day work?










